um so for those who don't know aisel of
alle co he made a video recently another
video discussing his views on pet
ownership and he mentions that the
criticisms of his views that he has
heard that they aren't worthy of a
response including my video that i did
talking about pet ownership which he
calls beneath contempt and stupid
honestly right now I regret even
discussing this in this video because I
do think my earlier videos on this
subject raised a really important
argument and I don't think I've seen
even one person respond to the substance
that argument in a way that's
interesting or merits any further reply
or comment on my point and of course for
those of you know that includes
unnatural vegan I mean obviously I
appreciate that a natural vegan has
shown me support in my recent dealing
with threats of violence defamation with
the ridiculous
you know catastrophe that went down
Chiangmai but no what she has to say
about this topic there is not even one
sentence of it that I think merits a
serious intellectual introspection
reflection or critique to me what just
sentence up it is beneath contempt and
it is in a word stupid
[Music]
a bonus yen in the same vein he also
talks about Peter Singer in his video
and he says that singer has never made
any arguments that I though
found you know compelling or inspiring
or worthy of being taken seriously what
Peter Singer has to say is so stupid is
so totally beneath contempt that I see
nothing in it that's worth talking about
or replying to that is how I feel now
honestly that's how I've always felt I
don't know what set of circumstances led
to him being celebrated in the
mainstream media as a major voice he's
not even really a voice for veganism but
for vegetarianism of some sort I you
know I'm sorry but I mean neither in his
formal writing nor in his informal
interviews have I ever heard like one
sentence from that guy that I respect or
that I find inspiring or that I can take
seriously or even that I regard is
really worthy of the kind of critique
that I've offered to other people on
this on this channel
[Music]
should have been just a private
correspondence between him and me has
now been made public it's a position
that's made even more awkward by the
fact that he has not granted me
permission to share the email exchange
in this video so in eyes ELLs a natural
vegan hates me video he basically
presents my response my email as me
having hurt feelings because he
disagreed with me and because he called
you know my arguments stupid as many of
you who commented on the video already
guessed this was not my concern at all I
have no problem with eyes all
disagreeing with me
you know I've disagreed with numerous
points he's made in past videos he's
disagreed with me on numerous stuff it's
never been a problem because ultimately
I saw his channel as as promoting a
pragmatic approach to veganism which is
very important to me and he also doesn't
spew like anti science Shin anti-vaxxer
crazy diets any of that kind of stuff I
also have no problem with il calling my
arguments stupid or beneath contempt
there are plenty of asinine disturbing
beliefs out there that we all feel the
same way about and I don't think there's
anything wrong with saying that argument
is stupid beneath contempt whatever
other adjectives you would like to use
my issue is with isil's flippant
dismissal of the argument you know he
says in the video that he believes pet
ownership is an important topic that he
wants to discuss yet when others
including myself tried to discuss it by
sharing our own views
he waves them away without explaining
why
[Music]
it's unconstructive and it suggests to
me that he's only interested in
discussion when he thinks he can win you
know in this case it seems he can't
actually counter the argument and is
just simply unwilling to admit that he
was wrong from their prey as free water
is scarce since water is often
unavailable in selection quantities cats
are able to conserve body water by
concentrating their urine now when you
give a cat a drivable diet they are not
getting water from your food and their
Uranus and in my opinion these cats
often live their lives in a state of
subclinical hydration brannad there is
an ethical component to veganism for
human we look at the destruction on the
planet and we look at the end of
suffering across the globe and we want
to do something about that cats on the
other hand their instinct isn't a
factory farm by the way their instinct
is to hunt and so by feeding a cat of
the
gibble you are placing your own human
ethics overtop of cats and the other
thing like I already said you know he
did the same when commenting on Peter
Singer but even worse so you know
instead of one particular argument that
Singer has made as all says that nothing
Singer has ever said a suede him or
inspired him you know everything he has
to say regarding veganism and animal
ethics is stupid so he is essentially
painting an entire person's career and
contribution to something very
meaningful as meaningless without
bothering to explain why this is
concerning to me mostly because of what
I think it says about the way that I
sell views his viewers and his influence
you know as I asked in the email did it
not occur to you that people may take
you at your word particularly those who
like you enough to give you money
remember this video originally was only
for patrons people who give him money
out of me on a monthly basis I go on to
say you were growing a following here on
YouTube please be aware of the potential
power your words hold and act
accordingly and if we encourage people
to just trust us to just believe what we
say is true that our argument is right
end of story and that their argument is
wrong end of story we run the risk of
people treating anything we say as
gospel we are basically encouraging
people to do so and this has very real
and very serious consequences I just
watched a video that the vegan cheetah
brought attention to where a man was
convinced by durianrider to get a
vasectomy he is now regretting it and he
will have to pay thousands of dollars
for a reversal if a reversal is even
possible in his situation
of course I'm not saying I sell is going
to encourage people to undergo
life-altering
you know procedures or give up on higher
education to pursue a YouTube career or
any of the other crazy stuff that hardly
promotes although you know given his
misguided views on pet domestication and
how supposedly easy it is for animals
previously living in captivity to revert
to their feral nature if released into
the wild it's possible that somebody
would believe this to be true and
actually released you know their pet
into the wild where would it would most
assuredly die the effects of throwing
intellectual honesty to the wind and
giving in to cult mentality are
unpredictable but almost always negative
and the negative effects
you know these negative effects of
fandoms echo chambers cults whatever you
want to call them it runs both ways you
know the person encouraging such
situations is also very likely going to
be negatively affected by the results
again we can look to Harley and even
freely you know both of whom appear to
have changed significantly since
becoming popular on YouTube with their
30 bad you know relative for lifestyles
I'm not suggesting that this is where
eyes l and his channel are headed
obviously I have no clue I'm simply
stating that someone who sees no issue
with painting and argument as stupid
without explaining why
[Music]
who sees no issue with painting a person
as uninspiring with nothing of value to
say without explaining why and who sees
no issue with providing incomplete
information so that viewers are forced
to have faith that what he's saying is
true that such a person comes across to
me as someone who isn't concerned about
the potential for fanaticism and echo
chambers the fact that I expressed this
concern in my email and that he didn't
even bother to address it in his video
response that speaks volumes to me in
addition this is not the only time that
I saw has exhibited this type of
behavior just one example I'm a member
of the skeptic vegan discussion group on
Facebook it's a closed group and someone
a few weeks ago referenced a thread that
isael had started about Buddhism and
meditation like about a year ago so I
checked it on and I saw he shares in the
thread he shares a video that he made
about the topic about meditation
Buddhism a couple of people disagreed
with his view and instead of countering
their arguments as I'll insulted them
and then Lexx the group I'm not sharing
the thread with you because it is again
a closed group and I also did not wish
for me to share it with you however you
can see it for yourself by asking to
join the group and getting approved to
join the group which I do actually
recommend that you do because it is an
awesome awesome vegan group as I already
mentioned many have voiced the same
concerns with regard to eyes ELLs
dismissal of arguments it is kind of
funny to me how so many people who did
not see my email response managed to
understand my few point completely and
yet the one person who did see my email
response completely missed the point and
misrepresented me in his video and
that's it that's why I no longer
recommend a balla CEO a Buddhist Yin at
this point I am probably just restating
the obvious to let you know that every
single thing a natural vegan says in the
sequence of that argument
is to some extent misleading in to some
extent and outright lie most generally
she claims again and again that I never
on a know made videos with commentary or
analysis on the two topics she's
complaining about philosophy Peter
singer and the ownership of domesticated
pets feeding me to pets castrating pets
declawing pets those types of issues now
even if I didn't present any
counter-argument or screenshots of
videos that wouldn't make a lot of sense
because why would she be angry at me and
disagreeing with me if I had never said
anything on those topics if the only
statement I'd ever made was the short
clip she she presents of my saying that
her point of view is not worthy of
debate is not worth responding to do you
do you really think that what said do
you think that's all she's respond to in
that then I refuse to discuss their do
you think she offered to disgust me she
keeps implying that I somehow shut down
or avoided a conversation with her do
you think she offered to talk to me on
skype to do a dialogue to do a report a
podcast or a video of us debated you
really has she ever done that once with
anyone do you think she offered to do
that with me on a topic like this that
she was obviously you know bent out of
shape mode is super fashion happened
it's misleading on so many ways and so
many levels obviously at that time I
already had substantive videos stating
what my views were about Peter Singer
and about pet ownership and even within
that video she quotes you could tell if
you just watched that short clip where
I'm contemptuously dismissing the views
of the people at is worth you can tell
i'm about to go on to say more about why
i just scrape with them it's it what do
you think then i just switched the topic
and started talking about star wars and
what do you think happens to the rest of
that video but moreover i had uploaded
right at that time she took quite a
while to make that response video and
she had emailed me repeatedly indicating
that she wasn't just gonna respond to
what i'd say she was going to demolish
me she was gonna try to destroy him
black in my character on youtube and how
did she communicate this in these
private emails that again nobody has
seen except her
she didn't just tell me that she was
going to use this conversation from
Facebook that she used that she alludes
to us having this comfort my having
dared to have a conversation in a
facebook group about meditation me
someone who has peer-reviewed articles
who had more than 10 years of the
scholar of Buddhism who learned the Pali
language who lived in Southeast Asia of
me someone who has meditated even in the
company of famous Buddhist monks both in
Asia and in the Western world I have all
kinds of experience and depth of
knowledge of that book learning and so
on and that I would dare to to make
these comments in a Facebook group this
was going to be used to blacken my
character how this blackens my character
I mean you can see the way she presented
it makes it sound like I'm a terrible
person
does that make me a terrible person
Swasey
again this line of criticism makes makes
no sense she also sent me links to a
first I forget about links or
screenshots but comments in public chat
groups of people saying I'm a piece of
crap because of my scholarship on
Buddhism now yes there are you know
there are a chat groups that people
saying to me but I wrote back to her
saying look this is really unethical why
would you defame me this way I have
peer-reviewed you know
publications on put his philosophy I'll
send you the links or sent whatever I
sent whether it links or screenshots or
citations I said why don't you read at
least one of my papers before going
public and and demolishing me as some
kind of phony and fraud in terms of what
a scholarship this is not true at all
this is not reasonable now of course she
had no interest in doing that I'm
guessing that what I wrote back to her
there because I did write repeatedly um
I wouldn't say they were long messages
but they were quite forceful saying look
put yourself in my position what if you
had done years of work as a scholar and
then a youtuber defamed and announced
you in this way the way she had told me
she was going to so she let me know in
advance and it was long enough in
advance that I made his ever called to
substantive videos directly speaking on
the topics she's complaining I hadn't
said anything about and of course I had
talked about those in earlier videos
including the Q&A videos up to that time
which is what sparked this initial
controversy Minh
I've just shown you a whole bunch of
screenshots these are not issues that
would hold my tongue on so this is the
first step of her misleading you is the
fundamental complaint she has against me
that I'm an ethical is allegedly that I
just came on camera and said you know
feeding dead cows to cats is a bad idea
castrating your dog's a bad idea and
Peter singers philosophy is lousy well
if I had said that so what I mean is
that really so shocking if but of course
as you guys know that is not all I've
said I've spoken at great length and
I've prided you know provided reasoning
and citations and sources and and talk
these things through now again you guys
probably have time to read it so just go
really quickly I had a brief quotation
about what my view is on Peter Singer
most of you who are under the age of 50
will not even know the name Peter Singer
he's not that big a deal anymore but he
was a big deal decades ago now I quoted
from Gary Fran Sione's website quote
Peter Singer does not think that it is
necessarily a problem that we use
nonhumans for human purposes because he
does not regard the killing of animals
as necessarily immoral he doesn't
necessarily regard the eating of meat as
immoral he makes excuses for eating meat
during calomel consider etc and so does
a natural vegan
according to Singer animals with the
exception of non-human great apes and
perhaps a few other species are not
self-aware and do not really care that
we use them but only about how we use
them this lead singer to say that it may
be morally acceptable to be
conscientious omnivores if we are
careful to eat only animals who've been
raised and killed in a humane manner
okay so why would it be surprising or
shocking that she has this clip of me
out of context seeing that I complete I
have nothing but contempt for the
philosophy Peter Singer why would that
be surprising if you can quote me saying
that or Gary Francia nay saying that or
Ingrid Newkirk or any other vegan why
would it be surprising why would this be
somebody to block them I don't even feel
this is criticism you're right you're
damn right I've come out loud and proud
and clear and said my philosophy and
Peter singers philosophy are totally
incompatible but the argument she pins
on to this is that I am somehow a
dangerous cult leader
I'm Inga engaging in the cult mentality
in a manner similar to during writer I
edited down that part of a bit of
Shaolin for quite some length about how
during writers started off being okay
and then drifted into being a dangerous
cult leader then I'm somehow in an echo
chamber appealing for people to believe
what I have to say on faith and that I'm
a dangerous and terrible person in the
same ways as during writer and freely
white because I'm actually vegan because
I openly say that making excuses for for
happy meat for humane slaughter for the
eating of meat and keeping of animals in
in captivity and so on on Peter singers
mother that that really doesn't impress
me and again because you took that clip
out of context and then claim that I've
never before or since
explain explained at length my position
on on Peter Singer I not only have
explained it I invited someone under my
channel who was Pro Peter Singer and we
debated it or discuss it you know on
camera um she very rapidly folded her
cards and basically admitted that she
90% doesn't agree with what Peter says
in any of these issues likewise within
the last two years you know I've seen
unnatural vegan have to dial back her
support for Peter Singer and I've had
videos discussing that that she's kind
of in a hypocritical way said that she
somehow never really knew what it was
Peter Singer supported back when she
supported him so passionately now look
um obviously her argument against me is
so incoherent that it is based on
emotion and that's the part of the story
I can sympathize with obviously she was
someone who had such a strong emotional
attachment to either the philosophy of
Peter Singer were the justifications and
excuses she has for castrating animals
feeding a pet cat meat you know keeping
you know or pet cats on obviously she
has so much emotional attachment to one
or the other of these issues or both
that she responded in a way that was
completely based on emotion I note that
at this time that she made this video
she was pregnant and her pregnancy was
still secret so you know she probably
was in a tough spot emotionally in a
bunch of different ways I didn't know
she was pregnant at this point nor did
much of anyone else um whatever bizarre
um you know autobiographical
circumstances we're you know created
this emotional breakdown in her end all
I can say is I've come out here on
YouTube and I've
about substantive issues that really
matter to vegans in a substantive way
and how dare you how dare you say that
I'm the leader of a dangerous echo
chamber or cult how dare you say I'm
engaging in the cult mentality how dare
you blacken my character on these vague
insinuations about something I said
about meditation how dare you you
dragged my name through the mud in the
most dishonest way imaginable with
circular and incoherent reasoning when
all I said was yeah killing a cow to
feed it to your cat is just as morally
bad as killing a cow to feed it to your
son or daughter or husband or wife I
don't see a difference
hashtag speciesism when I said yeah you
know what this Peter singer guy not
really vegan which is the same thing
Gary France aione and every single
abolitionist vegan every single real
vegan has always said in contrast to
Swayze alright so you think I stuck my
neck out on some dangerous issues here
not really I didn't do anything too bold
or provocative but you can see just how
easily Swayze gets provoked and that's
because Swayze deep down aside is living
a lie she is what we would simply call a
fake vegan Swayze you're a parasite on
this movement just give it up change
your name to unnatural semi plant-based
lying hypocrite do us all a favor and
I'm so happy for you that you're feeding
your children and paying your rent and
paying your mortgage off of the backs of
the vegan movement but I really prefer
that you did it without defaming me if
anyone in this situation is carpel
during Ryder it's not me honey it's you
Avaris Yin